---
title: 'Women in Tech'
date: 2026-02-03
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-10/
tags:
  - IT
  - Career
  - Tech
  - Women
---
Series: Career chat

---

My role model recently is my manager. A woman leader almost the age of my grandma. She has a PhD in her field BUT also an IT expert. An IT tech lead and also overall project lead at the same time. She leads a male-dominated developer team… while wearing twinkling earrings. 
How cool is that? 

Growing up, many of us have heard sayings like: 

  _“Women think emotionally, not logically”_
  
  _“Coding is too "dry", too technical — not suitable for women”_
  
  _“Women shouldn’t become leaders because their decisions are emotion-based”_
  
  _“Men’s brains can neatly organize thoughts in little drawers, while women’s brains are … mixed up_ (the famous theory of Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus.)

-------
To be fair, those ideas might describe averages. Maybe even many cases. But definitely not all. 

And that’s where women in tech quietly — and confidently — prove the point wrong. 

I’m one of those who went against the stereotype. I didn’t start in IT at all. I graduated as a food engineer. Coding wasn't part of the plan. But curiosity and lots of stubbornness led me to teach myself coding, system configuration.

A year ago, I wrote a post about job options for food science graduates, and listed out many options but none of it is in IT. Simply because I didn’t believe that it’s possible. And today, I’m working in system configuration in lab process for the world leader in the dairy and energy sectors. I’m still a junior member of the developer team, but I’m in. And honestly, convincing myself to get in is the hardest part (and still I'm cheering myself up during the process).

I’m not a genius. Far from it. My tech journey during the last 2 years got many ups and downs, self-doubt, and moments of feeling very small (well I'm literally an asian tiny haha) — especially when surrounded by native French speakers while being the only foreigner on the team. Not just the only Asian. The only foreigner. The one who just study French for 3 years. Still, step by step, I stayed. 

I see how valuable interdisciplinary expertise is in this AI era. Companies are investing heavily in digitalizing their processes. And they’re not just looking for pure IT profiles — they’re looking for people who understand both the industry and technology. Not just those who can code, but also those who understand their process to adapt the system into business needs.

Why I’m writing this? First, to cheer myself up for the upcoming challenges in the journey that I dared to choose and got this far. Second, for young girls standing where I stood two years ago — those who dare to dream about tech but hesitate.  Our original major won’t be wasted. Our background is not a weakness. If we find the right intersection between your domain and IT, we become the kind of talent companies are searching for. My leader can do it. I can do it (and still striving everyday). And yes — you can do it too.   

